add v6.4 release notes (#11245)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.4.0.md

    通过 SQL 语句 `ALTER TABLE table_name COMPACT [PARTITION PartitionNameList] [engine_type REPLICA]` 可以立即触发指定 Partition 的 TiFlash 副本物理数据整理。

    [用户文档](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#alter-table--compact)

* 支持通过 FLASHBACK CLUSTER 命令将集群快速回退到过去某一个指定的时间点 [#37197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37197) [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303)  @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo) **tw@Oreoxmt**

    FLASHBACK CLUSTER 支持在 Garbage Collection (GC) life time 时间内，快速回退整个集群到指定的时间点。使用该特性可以轻松快速撤消 DML 误操作，例如，用户误执行了没有 WHERE 子句的 DELETE，FLASHBACK CLUSTER 能够在几分钟内回退原数据库集群到指点时间点。该特性不依赖于数据库备份，支持在时间线上反复回退以确定特定数据更改发生的时间。FLASHBACK CLUSTER 不能替代数据库备份。

    [用户文档](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md)

> * 支持通过 FLASHBACK DATABASE 命令将被删除的数据库恢复 [#20463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20463)  @[erwadba](https://github.com/erwadba) **tw@ran-huang**
> 
>     FLASHBACK DATABASE 支持在 Garbage Collection (GC) life time 时间内恢复被 `DROP` 删除的数据库以及数据。该特性不依赖任何外部工具，可以轻松快速通过 SQL 语句进行数据和元信息的恢复。
> 
>     [用户文档](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support restoring a deleted database by using `FLASH DATABASE` [#20463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20463)  @[erwadba](https://github.com/erwadba) **tw@ran-huang**

    By using `FLASHBACK DATABASE`, you can restore a database and its data deleted by `DROP` within the garbage collection (GC) life time. This feature does not depend on any external tools. You can quickly restore data and metadata using SQL statements.

    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md)
```

### Security

> * TiFlash 静态加密支持国密算法 SM4 [#5953](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5953) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu) **tw@ran-huang**
> 
>     TiFlash 的静态加密新增 SM4 算法，用户可以修改配置文件 tiflash-learner.toml 中的 data-encryption-method 参数，设置为 sm4-ctr，以启用基于国密算法 SM4 的静态加密能力。
> 
>     [用户文档](/encryption-at-rest.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  TiFlash supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest [#5953](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5953) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu) **tw@ran-huang**

    Add the SM4 algorithm for TiFlash encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the `data-encryption-method` configuration to `sm4-ctr` in the `tiflash-learner.toml` configuration file.

    [User document](/encryption-at-rest.md#tiflash)
```

### Observability

* 集群诊断功能 GA [#1438](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1438) @[Hawkson-jee](https://github.com/Hawkson-jee) **tw@shichun-0415**

    集群诊断功能是在指定的时间范围内，对集群可能存在的问题进行诊断，并将诊断结果和一些集群相关的负载监控信息汇总成一个诊断报告。诊断报告是网页形式，通过浏览器保存后可离线浏览和传阅。

    用户可以通过该报告快速了解集群内的基本诊断信息，包括负载、组件、耗时和配置信息。若用户的集群存在一些常见问题，在[诊断信息](/dashboard/dashboard-diagnostics-report.md#诊断信息)部分可以了解 TiDB 内置自动诊断的结果。

    详细内容见[用户文档](/dashboard/dashboard-diagnostics-access.md)

### Performance

> * 引入 cop task 并发度自适应机制 [#37724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37724) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@ran-huang**
> 
>     随 cop task 任务数增加结合 TiKV 处理速度，自动调整增加 [`tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency) 并发度，减少因 cop task 任务排队，降低延迟。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Introduce the concurrency adaptive mechanism for coprocessor tasks [#37724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37724) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@ran-huang**

    As the number of coprocessor tasks increases, based on TiKV's processing speed, TiKV automatically increases concurrency (adjust the value of [`tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency)) to reduce the coprocessor task queue and thus reduce latency.
```

    数据库的可用性是企业用户最为关注的指标之一，但是在复杂的硬件环境下，如何快速检测故障，快速恢复一直是数据库面临的挑战之一。TiDB 在 6.4 版本，全面优化了 TiKV 节点的状态检测机制，即使在磁盘故障，I/O 无响应等极端情况，依然可以快速上报节点状态，同时搭配主动唤醒机制，提前发起选主，加速集群自愈。通过这次优化，TiDB 在磁盘故障场景下，集群恢复时间可以缩短 50% 左右。

* TiDB 全局内存限制 [#37816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37816) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@TomShawn**

    在 v6.4.0 中，我们引入了一个实验特性，对 TiDB 实例的全局内存使用进行追踪。 用户可以通过系统变量 [`tidb_server_memory_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidbservermemorylimit-span-classversion-mark从-v640-版本开始引入span) 设置全局内存的使用上限。 当内存使用量逼近预设的上限时， TiDB 会尝试对内存进行回收，释放更多的可用内存； 当内存使用量超出预设的上限时， TiDB 会识别出当前内存使用量最大的 SQL 操作，并取消这个操作，避免因为内存使用过度而产生的系统性问题。

    当 TiDB 实例的内存消耗存在潜在风险时，TiDB 会预先收集诊断信息并写入指定目录，方便对问题的诊断。 同时，TiDB 提供了视图 [`information_schame.MEMORY_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-memory-usage.md) 和 [`information_schame.MEMORY_USAGE_OPS_HISTORY`](/information-schema/information-schema-memory-usage-ops-history.md) 用来展示内存使用情况及历史操作， 可以帮助客户清晰了解内存使用状况。

    全局内存限制是 TiDB 内存管理的重要一步， 实例采用全局视角，引入系统性方法对内存的使用进行管理， 这将会极大提升数据库的稳定性，提高服务的可用性，支持 TiDB 在更多重要场景平稳运行。

    [用户文档](/configure-memory-usage.md)

> * 控制优化器在构造范围时的内存占用 [#37176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37176) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@TomShawn**
> 
>     v6.4.0 引入了系统变量 [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-从-v640-版本开始引入) 用来限制优化器在构造范围时消耗的内存上限。 当内存使用超出这个限制，则放弃构造精确的范围，转而构建更粗粒度的范围，以此降低内存消耗。 当 SQL 中的 `IN` 条件特别多时， 这个优化可以显著降低编译时的内存使用量，保证系统的稳定性。
> 
>     [用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-从-v640-版本开始引入)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Control the memory usage of optimizer building ranges [#37176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37176) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@TomShawn**

    In v6.4.0, the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) is introduced to limit the maximum memory usage of the optimizer building ranges. When the memory usage exceeds the limit, the optimizer will build more coarse-grained ranges instead of more exact ranges to reduce memory consumption. If a SQL statement has many `IN` conditions, this optimization can significantly reduce the memory usage of compiling and ensure system stability.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640)
```

    In earlier versions, TiDB uses the greedy algorithm to determine the join order of tables. In v6.4.0, the TiDB optimizer introduces the [dynamic planning algorithm](/join-reorder.md#example-the-dynamic-programming-algorithm-of-join-reorder). The dynamic planning algorithm can enumerate more possible join orders than the greedy algorithm, so it increases the possibility to find a better execution plan and improve the SQL execution efficiency in some scenarios.

    Because the dynamic programming algorithm consumes more time, the selection of the TiDB Join Reorder algorithms is controlled by the [`tidb_opt_join_reorder_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_join_reorder_threshold) variable. If the number of nodes participating in Join Reorder is greater than this threshold, TiDB uses the greedy algorithm. Otherwise, TiDB uses the dynamic programming algorithm.

    [User document](/join-reorder.md)

* The prefix index supports filtering null values. [#21145](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/21145) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@TomShawn**

>     This feature is an optimization of the prefix index. When a column in a table has a prefix index, the `IS NULL` or `IS NOT NULL` condition of the column in the SQL statement can be directly filtered by the prefix, which avoids table lookup in this case and improves the performance of the SQL execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This feature is an optimization for the prefix index. When a column in a table has a prefix index, the `IS NULL` or `IS NOT NULL` condition of the column in the SQL statement can be directly filtered by the prefix, which avoids table lookup in this case and improves the performance of the SQL execution.
```

    When the memory consumption of TiDB instances has potential risks, TiDB will collect diagnostic information in advance and write it to the specified directory to facilitate the issue diagnosis. At the same time, TiDB provides system table views [`information_schame.MEMORY_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-memory-usage.md) and [`information_schame.MEMORY_USAGE_OPS_HISTORY`](/information-schema/information-schema-memory-usage-ops-history.md) that show the memory usage and operation history to help you better understand the memory usage.

    Global memory control is a milestone in TiDB memory management. It introduces a global view for instances and adopts systematic management for memory, which can greatly enhance database stability and service availability in more key scenarios.

    [User document](/configure-memory-usage.md)

> * Control the memory usage of optimizer building ranges [#37176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37176) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@TomShawn**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Control the memory usage of the range-building optimizer [#37176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37176) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@TomShawn**
```

>     In v6.4.0, the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) is introduced to limit the maximum memory usage of the optimizer building ranges. When the memory usage exceeds the limit, the optimizer will build more coarse-grained ranges instead of more exact ranges to reduce memory consumption. If a SQL statement has many `IN` conditions, this optimization can significantly reduce the memory usage of compiling and ensure system stability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In v6.4.0, the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) is introduced to limit the maximum memory usage of the optimizer that builds ranges. When the memory usage exceeds the limit, the optimizer will build more coarse-grained ranges instead of more exact ranges to reduce memory consumption. If a SQL statement has many `IN` conditions, this optimization can significantly reduce the memory usage of compiling and ensure system stability.
```

| TiKV | [`raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold-从-v620-版本开始引入) | 废弃 | 废弃对 RawKV 的 Resolved TS 进行异常检测的阈值。|
| PD | [`tso-update-physical-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#tso-update-physical-interval) | 新增 | 这个配置项从 v6.4.0 开始生效，用来控制 TSO 物理时钟更新周期，默认值为 50ms。 |
| TiFlash | [`data-encryption-method`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#配置文件-tiflash-learnertoml) | 修改 | 扩展可选值范围：增加 sm4-ctr。设置为 sm4-ctr 时，数据将采用国密算法 SM4 加密后进行存储。 |
| DM | [`routes.route-rule-1.extract-table`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#完整配置文件示例) | 新增 | 可选配置。用于提取分库分表场景中分表的源信息，提取的信息写入下游合表，用于标识数据来源。如果配置该项，需要提前在下游手动创建合表。 |
| DM | [`routes.route-rule-1.extract-schema`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#完整配置文件示例) | 新增 | 可选配置。用于提取分库分表场景中分库的源信息，提取的信息写入下游合表，用于标识数据来源。如果配置该项，需要提前在下游手动创建合表。 |
| DM | [`routes.route-rule-1.extract-source`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#完整配置文件示例) | 新增 | 可选配置。用于提取分库分表场景中的源信息，提取的信息写入下游合表，用于标识数据来源。如果配置该项，需要提前在下游手动创建合表。 |

### Others

- 从 v6.4.0 开始，TiCDC 使用 Syncpoint 功能需要同步任务拥有下游集群的 `SYSTEM_VARIABLES_ADMIN` 或者 `SUPER` 权限。

## Removed feature

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - `mysql.tables_priv` 表中新增了 `grantor` 字段 [#38293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38293) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
>     - 允许修改系统变量 `lc_messages` [#38231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38231) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
>     - 允许 `AUTO_RANDOM` 列作为聚簇复合索引中的第一列 [#38572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38572) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - `CREATE USER` 和 `ALTER USER` 支持 `ATTRIBUTE` 和 `COMMENT` [#38172](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38172) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
>     - 内部事务重试使用悲观模式避免重试失败，降低耗时 [#38136](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38136) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add a `grantor` field in the `mysql.tables_priv` table [#38293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38293) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Allow modifying the noop variable `lc_messages` [#38231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38231) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
    - Support the `AUTO_RANDOM` column as the first column of the clustered composite index [#38572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38572) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Support `ATTRIBUTE` and `COMMENT` in `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` [#38172](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38172) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Use pessimistic transactions in internal transaction retry to avoid retry failure and reduce time consumption [#38136](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38136) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
```

        - 提升单表大量 region 场景下 TiCDC puller 的性能 [#7078](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7078) [#7281](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7281) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - 支持 Kafka 3.x 版 [7191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7191) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - 支持 syncpoint 功能与下游 TiDB 集群的 `tidb_enable_external_ts_read`  一起使用  [#7419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7419) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - 封装、暴露 Checker 对应的接口，提升各个入口功能组装、调用的灵活性。[#7116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7116) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - 移除 dmctl 中无用的 operate-source update 指令。[#7246](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7246) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - 解决了 TiDB 不兼容上游数据库的建表 SQL 导致 DM 全量迁移报错的问题 [#37984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37984) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@shichun-0415**

    + TiDB Lightning

        - 优化文件扫描逻辑，提升 Schema 类型文件的扫描速度。[#38598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38598) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - 修复新建索引之后有可能导致的数据索引不一致的问题 [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复关于 `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` 表的权限问题 [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
>     - 修复 CTE 在 join 时可能得到错误结果的问题 [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - 修复 CTE 在 union 时可能得到错误结果的问题 [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复监控 transaction region num panel 信息不准确问题 [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](github.com/jackysp)
>     - 修复 [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-从-v630-版本开始引入) 可能影响内部事务问题，修改该变量作用域为 session [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)
> - 修复了条件在某些场景下被错误下推 projection 的问题 [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623)@[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)
> - 修复了 `AND` `OR` 条件的 `isNullRejected` 的错误导致查询结果错误的问题 [#38304]( https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38304) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
> - 修复了外连接消除时没有考虑 `GROUP_CONCAT` 内部的 `order by` 导致查询出错的问题 [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) 
> - 修复了错误下推的条件被 join reorder 丢弃后导致查询结果错误的问题 [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fix the potential issue of index consistency that occurs after creating a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
 - Fix a permission issue of the `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
 - Fix the issue that the join result of common table expressions might be wrong [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
 - Fix the issue that the union result of common table expressions might be wrong [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
 - Fix the issue that the information in the **transaction region num** monitoring panel is incorrect [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
 - Fix the issue that the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) might affect internal transactions. The variable scope is modified to SESSION. [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)
- Fix the issue that conditions in a query are mistakenly pushed down to projections [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623)@[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)
- Fix the issue that the wrong `isNullRejected` check results for `AND` and `OR` cause wrong query result [#38304]( https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38304) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
- Fix the issue that `ORDER BY` in `GROUP_CONCAT` is not considered when the outer join is eliminated, which causes wrong query result [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) 
- Fix the issue of wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by join reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) 

```

        - 修复 checkpoint ts 可能被提前推进的问题 [#7274](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7274) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修改 mounter 模块的日志级以修复 log 打印太多的问题 [#7235](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7235) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修复可能存在两个 owner 的问题 [#4051](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4051)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - 修复 DM UI 产生错误 allow-list 参数问题。[#7096](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7096) @[zoubingwu](https://github.com/zoubingwu)
        - 修复 DM Worker 在启动、停止时有一定概率触发 data race 的问题。[#6401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6401) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
        - 修复当同步 Update、Delete 语句且下游行数据不存在时，DM 静默忽略的问题。[#6383](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6383) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - 修复 Query Status 时 secondsBehindMaster 字段未显示的问题。[#7189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7189) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - 修复更新 Checkpoint 时可能触发大事务的问题。[#5010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5010) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - 修复从 full 模式进行入 sync 模式且很快失败时可能丢失上游表结构信息的问题。[#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - 修复在全量任务模式下，任务进入 sync 阶段且立刻失败时，DM 可能丢失上游表结构信息的问题 [#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.4.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: November xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.4.0-DMR

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/)

In v6.4.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- 支持通过 FLASHBACK CLUSTER 命令将集群快速回退到过去某一个指定的时间点
- 支持 TiDB 全局内存限制
- TiDB 分区表兼容 Linear Hash 分区。
- 支持高性能、全局单调递增的 AUTO_INCREMENT 列属性。
- 支持对 JSON 类型中的 Array 数据做范围选择。
- 磁盘故障、I/O 无响应等极端情况下的故障恢复加速。
- 增加了动态规划算法来决定表的连接顺序。
- 引入新的优化器提示 `NO_DECORRELATE` 来控制解关联优化。
- 集群诊断功能 GA。
- TiFlash 静态加密支持国密算法 SM4。

> - 支持通过 SQL 语句对指定 Partition 的 TiFlash 副本立即触发物理数据整理 (Compaction)。

Author: ```suggestion
- Support using a SQL statement to [compact TiFlash replicas of specified partitions in a table immediately](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#compact-tiflash-replicas-of-specified-partitions-in-a-table).
```

- 支持对数据库用户增加额外说明。

> - 支持[基于 AWS EBS snapshot 的集群备份和恢复](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.4/backup-to-aws-s3-by-snapshot)。
> - 支持在分库分表合并迁移场景中[标记下游表中的数据来自上游哪个分库、分表和数据源](/dm/dm-key-features.md#提取分库分表数据源信息写入合表)。

Author: ```suggestion
- Support [backing up a TiDB cluster using EBS volume snapshots](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.4/backup-to-aws-s3-by-snapshot).
- DM supports [writing upstream data source information to the extended columns of the downstream merged table] (/dm/dm-key-features.md#extract-table-schema-and-source-information-and-write-into-the-merged-table).
```

    - Check whether the upstream tables use character sets that are incompatible with TiDB.
    - Check whether the upstream tables have primary key constraints or unique key constraints
    - Check whether the database ID `server_id` for the upstream database has been specified in the primary-secondary configuration.

* DM supports configuring binlog position and GTID as optional parameters for incremental migration tasks [#7393](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7393) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@shichun-0415**

    Since v6.4.0, you can perform incremental migration directly without specifying the binlog position or GTID. DM automatically obtains the binlog files generated after the task starts from upstream and migrates these incremental data to the downstream. This relieves users from laborious understanding and complicated configuration.

    For more information, see [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md).

* DM adds more status indicators for migration tasks [#7343](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7343) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@shichun-0415**

>     DM provides performance and progress indicators for migration tasks. Such information helps users learn about and control the task progress. In addition, the status information also provides a references for troubleshooting.
> 
>     In v6.4.0, DM adds several status indicators. They can help users understand the migration performance and progress more intuitively:

Author: ```suggestion
    In v6.4.0, DM adds more performance and progress indicators for migration tasks, which helps you understand the migration performance and progress more intuitively and provides you with a reference for troubleshooting.
```

    * Add status indicators (in bytes/s) showing data importing and exporting performance.
    * Rename the performance indicator for writing data to the downstream database from TPS to RPS (in rows/s).
    * Add progress indicators showing the data export progress of DM full migration tasks.

    For more information about these indicators, see [Query Task Status in TiDB Data Migration](/dm/dm-query-status.md).

### TiDB data share subscription

- TiCDC supports replicating data to Kafka of the `3.2.0` version [#7191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7191) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@shichun-0415**

>     From v6.4.0, TiCDC supports replicating data to Kafka of the `3.2.0` version and earlier.

Author: ```suggestion
    From v6.4.0, TiCDC supports [replicating data to Kafka](/replicate-data-to-kafka.md) of the `3.2.0` version and earlier.
```

    - Optimize the memory usage for decoding and remove redundant transfer columns to improve Join performance [#6157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6157) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Dashboard

        - Support displaying TiFlash metrics on the Monitoring page and optimize the presentation of metrics on that page [#1440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1440) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
        - Show the number of rows for results in the Slow Query list and SQL Statement list [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
        - Optimize the error messages of the Dashboard  [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Improve the mechanism for loading the metadata. The metadata is loaded into memory only when necessary, which significantly reduces the memory usage during PITR [#38404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38404) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

>         - TiCDC supports replicating the exchange partition DDL [#639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/639) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support replicating the exchange partition DDL statements [#639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/639) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    - Fix the performance issue caused by the abnormal `delete_files_in_range` [#13534](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13534) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the issue that Regions compete abnormally when getting snapshot caused by expired lease [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK` fails in the first batch [#13672](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13672) [#13704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13704) [#13723](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13723) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that Stream is timeout and improve the speed of switching leader [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the OOM issue due to oversized WAL files that occurs when PageStorage GC does not clear the Page deletion marker properly [#6163](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6163) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Dashboard

>         - Avoid TiDB OOM issues when querying execution plans of certain complex SQL statements [#1386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1386) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the TiDB OOM issue when querying execution plans of certain complex SQL statements [#1386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1386) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the restoration failure issue caused by PD leader switch during the restoration process [#36910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36910) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
        - Fix the issue that the log backup task cannot be paused [#38250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38250)@[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
        - Fix the issue that when BR deletes log backup data, it mistakenly deletes data that should not be deleted [#38939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38939) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to delete data when deleting the log backup data stored in Azure Blob Storage or Google Cloud Storage for the first time [#38229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38229) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that `sasl-password` in the `changefeed query` result is not masked [#7182](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7182) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC might become unavailable when too many operations in an etcd transaction are committed [#7131](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7131) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC might become unavailable when too many operations are committed to an etcd transaction  [#7131](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7131) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - Fix the issue that redo logs might be deleted incorrectly [#6413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6413) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Fix performance regression when replicating wide tables in Kafka Sink V2 [#7344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7344) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Author: 中文是 “sink v2 MQ 协议”， 英文是 “Kafka Sink V2”，不完全一致

Reviewer 3: Modified the Chinese to align it with the English version: [bc2acd2](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/11835/commits/bc2acd29ce8e86e9021f35beb41a33092c4c6dcb)

        - Fix the issue that updating the checkpoint may trigger a large transaction [#5010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5010) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that in full task mode, when a task enters the sync stage and fails immediately, DM may lose upstream table schema information [#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that deadlock may be triggered when the consistency check is enabled [#7241](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7241) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - Fix the issue that task precheck requires the `SELECT` privilege for the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` table [#7317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7317) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix an issue that an empty TLS configuration causes an error [#7384](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7384) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the import performance degradation when importing the Apache Parquet files that contain columns in the string type and have the encoding of the schemas set to `binary` [#38351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38351) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the import performance degradation when importing the Apache Parquet files to the target tables that contain the string type columns in  the`binary` encoding format [#38351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38351) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.4.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: November xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.4.0-DMR

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/)

In v6.4.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- Support restoring a cluster to a specific point in time by using [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) (experimental).
- Support [tracking the global memory usage](/configure-memory-usage.md) of TiDB instances (experimental).
- Be compatible with [the Linear Hash partitioning syntax](/partitioned-table.md#how-tidb-handles-linear-hash-partitions).

> - Support a high-performance and globally monotonic [`AUTO_INCREMENT`](/auto-increment.md#mysql-compatibility-mode) (experimental)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Support a high-performance and globally monotonic [`AUTO_INCREMENT`](/auto-increment.md#mysql-compatibility-mode) (experimental).
```

- Support range selection of array data in [the JSON type](/data-type-json.md).
- Accelerate fault recovery in extreme situations such as disk failure and I/O non-response.
- Add the [dynamic planning algorithm](/join-reorder.md#example-the-dynamic-programming-algorithm-of-join-reorder) to determine table join order.
- Introduce [a new optimizer hint `NO_DECORRELATE`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_decorrelate) to control whether to perform decorrelation for correlated subqueries.
- The [cluster diagnostics](/dashboard/dashboard-diagnostics-access.md) feature becomes GA.
- TiFlash supports the SM4 algorithm for [encryption at rest](/encryption-at-rest.md#tiflash).
- Support using a SQL statement to [compact TiFlash replicas of specified partitions in a table immediately](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#compact-tiflash-replicas-of-specified-partitions-in-a-table).
- Support [backing up a TiDB cluster using EBS volume snapshots](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.4/backup-to-aws-s3-by-snapshot).

> - DM supports [writing upstream data source information to the extended columns of the downstream merged table] (/dm/dm-key-features.md#extract-table-schema-and-source-information-and-write-into-the-merged-table).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- DM supports [writing upstream data source information to the extended columns of the downstream merged table](/dm/dm-key-features.md#extract-table-schema-and-source-information-and-write-into-the-merged-table).
```

> - DM supports [writing upstream data source information to the extended columns of the downstream merged table] (/dm/dm-key-features.md#extract-table-schema-and-source-information-and-write-into-the-merged-table).

Author: ```suggestion
- DM supports [writing upstream data source information to the extended columns of the downstream merged table](/dm/dm-key-features.md#extract-table-schema-and-source-information-and-write-into-the-merged-table).
```

    With the diagnostic reports, you can quickly understand the basic health information of the cluster, including the load, component status, time consumption, and configurations. If the cluster has some common problems, you can locate the causes in the result of the built-in automatic diagnosis in the [diagnostic information](/dashboard/dashboard-diagnostics-report.md#diagnostic-information) section.

### Performance

* Introduce the concurrency adaptive mechanism for coprocessor tasks [#37724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37724) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@ran-huang**

    As the number of coprocessor tasks increases, based on TiKV's processing speed, TiDB automatically increases concurrency (adjust the value of [`tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_distsql_scan_concurrency)) to reduce the coprocessor task queue and thus reduce latency.

* Add the dynamic planning algorithm to determine table join order [#18969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18969) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@qiancai**

>     In earlier versions, TiDB uses the greedy algorithm to determine the join order of tables. In v6.4.0, the TiDB optimizer introduces the [dynamic planning algorithm](/join-reorder.md#example-the-dynamic-programming-algorithm-of-join-reorder). The dynamic planning algorithm can enumerate more possible join orders than the greedy algorithm, so it increases the possibility to find a better execution plan and improve the SQL execution efficiency in some scenarios.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In earlier versions, TiDB uses the greedy algorithm to determine the join order of tables. In v6.4.0, the TiDB optimizer introduces the [dynamic planning algorithm](/join-reorder.md#example-the-dynamic-programming-algorithm-of-join-reorder). The dynamic planning algorithm can enumerate more possible join orders than the greedy algorithm, so it increases the possibility to find a better execution plan and improves SQL execution efficiency in some scenarios.
```

    By default, TiDB always tries to rewrite correlated subqueries to perform decorrelation, which usually improves execution efficiency. However, in some scenarios, decorrelation reduces the execution efficiency. In v6.4.0, TiDB introduces the optimizer hint `NO_DECORRELATE` to tell the optimizer not to perform decorrelation for specified query blocks to improve query performance in some scenarios.

    [User document](/optimizer-hints.md#no_decorrelate)

* Improve the performance of statistics collection on partitioned tables [#37977](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37977) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer) **tw@TomShawn**

    In v6.4.0, TiDB optimizes the strategy of collecting statistics on partitioned tables. You can use the system variable [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-auto-analyze-partitoin-batch-size-new-in-v640) to set the concurrency of collecting statistics on partitioned tables in parallel to speed up the collection and shorten the analysis time.

### Stability

> * Accelerate fault recovery in extreme situations such as disk failure and I/O non-response [#13648](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13648) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@qiancai**
> 
>     For enterprise users, database availability is one of the most important metrics. While in complex hardware environments, how to quickly detect and recover from failures has always been one of the challenges of database availability. In v6.4, TiDB fully optimizes the state detection mechanism of TiKV nodes. Even in extreme situations such as disk failures and I/O non-response, TiDB can still report node status quickly and use the active wake-up mechanism to launch Leader election in advance, which accelerates cluster self-healing. Through this optimization, TiDB can shorten the cluster recovery time by about 50% in the case of disk failures.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Accelerate fault recovery in extreme situations such as disk failure and stuck I/O [#13648](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13648) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@qiancai**

    For enterprise users, database availability is one of the most important metrics. While in complex hardware environments, how to quickly detect and recover from failures has always been one of the challenges of database availability. In v6.4, TiDB fully optimizes the state detection mechanism of TiKV nodes. Even in extreme situations such as disk failures and stuck I/O, TiDB can still report node status quickly and use the active wake-up mechanism to launch Leader election in advance, which accelerates cluster self-healing. Through this optimization, TiDB can shorten the cluster recovery time by about 50% in the case of disk failures.
```

### Ease of use

* TiKV API V2 becomes generally available (GA) [#11745](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11745) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu) **tw@Oreoxmt**

    Before v6.1.0, TiKV only provides basic Key Value read and write capability because it only stores the raw data passed in by the client. In addition, due to different coding methods and unscoped data ranges, TiDB, Transactional KV, and RawKV cannot be used at the same time in the same TiKV cluster; instead, multiple clusters are needed in this case, thus increasing machine and deployment costs.

    TiKV API V2 provides a new Raw Key Value storage format and access interface, which delievers the following benefits:

    - Store data in MVCC with the change timestamp of the data recorded, based on which Change Data Capture (CDC) is implemented. This feature is experimental and is detailed in [TiKV-CDC](https://github.com/tikv/migration/blob/main/cdc/README.md).
    - Scope data according to the usage and allow co-existence of a single TiDB cluster, Transactional KV, and RawKV applications.
    - Reserve the Key Space field to support features such as multi-tenancy.

>     To enable TiKV API V2, set `api-version = 2` in the `[storage]` section of the TiKV configuration file.
> 
>     [User documentation](/tikv-configuration-file.md#api-version-new-in-v610)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  To enable TiKV API V2, set `api-version = 2` in the `[storage]` section of the TiKV configuration file.

  [User documentation](/tikv-configuration-file.md#api-version-new-in-v610)
```

    In addition, TiDB v6.4 adds the [USER_ATTRIBUTES](/information-schema/information-schema-user-attributes.md) table, where you can view the information of user comments and use attributes.

    This feature improves TiDB compatibility with MySQL syntax and makes it easier to integrate TiDB into tools or platforms in the MySQL ecosystem.

### Backup and restore

* Support backing up a TiDB cluster using EBS volume snapshots [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33849) @[fengou1](https://github.com/fengou1) **tw@shichun-0415**

    If your TiDB cluster is deployed on EKS and uses AWS EBS volumes, and you have the following requirements when backing up TiDB cluster data , you can use TiDB Operator to back up the data by volume snapshots and metadata to AWS S3:

    - Minimize the impact of backup, for example, to keep the impact on QPS and transaction latency less than 5%, and to occupy no cluster CPU and memory.
    - Back up and restore data in a short time. For example, finish backup within 1 hour and restore data in 2 hours.

>     For more information, see [User document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.4/backup-to-aws-s3-by-snapshot).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [User document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.4/backup-to-aws-s3-by-snapshot).
```

    Since v6.4.0, you can perform incremental migration directly without specifying the binlog position or GTID. DM automatically obtains the binlog files generated after the task starts from upstream and migrates these incremental data to the downstream. This relieves users from laborious understanding and complicated configuration.

    For more information, see [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md).

* DM adds more status indicators for migration tasks [#7343](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7343) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@shichun-0415**

    In v6.4.0, DM adds more performance and progress indicators for migration tasks, which helps you understand the migration performance and progress more intuitively and provides you with a reference for troubleshooting.

    * Add status indicators (in bytes/s) showing data importing and exporting performance.
    * Rename the performance indicator for writing data to the downstream database from TPS to RPS (in rows/s).
    * Add progress indicators showing the data export progress of DM full migration tasks.

>     For more information about these indicators, see [Query Task Status in TiDB Data Migration](/dm/dm-query-status.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  For more information about these indicators, see [Query Task Status in TiDB Data Migration](/dm/dm-query-status.md).
```

| [`tidb_opt_prefix_index_single_scan`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-prefix-index-single-scan-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls whether the TiDB optimizer pushes down some filter conditions to the prefix index to avoid unnecessary table lookup and to improve query performance. The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Specifies the upper limit of memory usage for the optimizer to construct a scan range. The default value is `67108864` (64 MiB). |
| [`tidb_server_memory_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb-server-memory-limit-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the upper limit of memory usage for the optimizer to build scan ranges (experimental). The default value is `0`, meaning that there is no memory limit. |
| [`tidb_server_memory_limit_gc_trigger`](/system-variables.md#tidb-server-memory-limit-gc-trigger-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the threshold at which TiDB tries to trigger GC (experimental). The default value is `70%`. |

> | [`tidb_server_memory_limit_sess_min_size`](tidb-server-memory-limit-session-min-size-new-in-v640) | Newly added | After you enable the memory limit, TiDB will terminate the SQL statement with the highest memory usage on the current instance. This variable specifies the minimum memory usage of the SQL statement to be terminated. The default value is `134217728` (128 MB).|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_server_memory_limit_sess_min_size`](tidb-server-memory-limit-session-min-size-new-in-v640) | Newly added | After you enable the memory limit, TiDB will terminate the SQL statement with the highest memory usage on the current instance. This variable specifies the minimum memory usage of the SQL statement to be terminated. The default value is `134217728` (128 MiB).|
```

| TiKV | [`cdc.raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold-new-in-v620) | Deprecated | This configuration item is no longer effective. |
| TiKV | [`causal-ts.alloc-ahead-buffer`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#alloc-ahead-buffer-new-in-v640) | Newly added | The pre-allocated TSO cache size (in duration). The default value is `3s`。|
| TiKV | [`causal-ts.renew-batch-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#renew-batch-max-size-new-in-v640)| Newly added | Controls the maximum number of TSOs in a timestamp request. The default value is `8192`. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-yield-write-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-yield-write-size--new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of bytes that the Apply thread can write for one FSM (Finite-state Machine) in one round of poll. The default value is `32KiB`. This is a soft limit. |
| PD | [`tso-update-physical-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#tso-update-physical-interval) | Newly added | Takes effect starting from v6.4.0 and controls the interval at which PD updates the physical time of TSO. The default value is `50ms`. |

> | TiFlash | [`data-encryption-method`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option sm4-ctr. When this configuration item is set to sm4-ctr, data is encrypted using SM4 before being stored. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| TiFlash | [`data-encryption-method`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `sm4-ctr`. When this configuration item is set to `sm4-ctr`, data is encrypted using SM4 before being stored. |
```

| DM | [`routes.route-rule-1.extract-schema`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | Optional. Used in the sharding scenario for extracting the source information of sharded schemas. The extracted information will be written to the merged table in the downstream to identify the data source. If this parameter is configured, you need to manually create a merged table in the downstream in advance. |
| DM | [`routes.route-rule-1.extract-source`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | Optional. Used in the sharding scenario for extracting the source instance information. The extracted information will be written to the merged table in the downstream to identify the data source. If this parameter is configured, you need to manually create a merged table in the downstream in advance. |

### Others

> - Starting from v6.4.0, the mysql.user table adds two new columms: `User_attributes` and `Token_issuer`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Starting from v6.4.0, the `mysql.user` table adds two new columns: `User_attributes` and `Token_issuer`.  The `mysql.user` table from versions earlier than 6.4.0 cannot be restored to 6.4.0 via BR, which returns a `column count mismatch` error.
```

- For files whose names match the Dumpling schemas and data format but end with uncompressed formats (such as `test-schema-create.sql.origin` and `test.table-schema.sql.xxx`), the way how TiDB Lightning handles them is changed. Before v6.4.0, if the files to be imported include such files, TiDB Lightning will skip importing such files. Starting from v6.4.0, TiDB Lightning assumes that such files use unsupported compression formats, so the import task will fail.
- Starting with v6.4.0, only the changefeed with the `SYSTEM_VARIABLES_ADMIN` or `SUPER` privilege can use the TiCDC Syncpoint feature.

## Removed feature

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - Add a `grantor` field in the `mysql.tables_priv` table [#38293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38293) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - Warm up the entry cache before migrating the leader of Region to avoid QPS jitter during the leader transfer process [#13060](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13060) @[cosven](https://github.com/cosven)
    - Support pushing down the `json_constains` operator to Coprocessor [#13592](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13592) @[lizhenhuan](https://github.com/lizhenhuan)
    - Add the asynchronous function for `CausalTsProvider` to improve the flush performance in some scenarios [#13428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13428) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)

+ PD

    - The v2 algorithm of the hot Region scheduler becomes GA. In some scenarios, the v2 algorithm can achieve better balancing in both configured dimensions and reduce invalid scheduling [#5021](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5021) @[HundunDM](https://github.com/hundundm)
    - Optimize the timeout mechanism of operator step to avoid premature timeout [#5596](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5596) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

>     - Improve the performance of the scheduler in large clusters [#5473](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5473)@[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance of the scheduler in large clusters [#5473](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5473) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Improve the mechanism for loading the metadata. The metadata is loaded into memory only when necessary, which significantly reduces the memory usage during PITR [#38404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38404) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

        - Support replicating the exchange partition DDL statements [#639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/639) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve non-batch sending performance for the MQ sink module [#7353](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7353) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Improve performance of TiCDC puller when a table has a large number of Regions [#7078](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7078) [#7281](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7281) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Support reading historical data in the downstream TiDB by using the `tidb_enable_external_ts_read` varaible when Syncpoint is enabled [#7419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7419) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - 封装、暴露 Checker 对应的接口，提升各个入口功能组装、调用的灵活性。[#7116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7116) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Author: ```suggestion
```

        - Remove the useless `operate-source update` command from dmctl [#7246](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7246) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)

>         - 解决了 TiDB 不兼容上游数据库的建表 SQL 导致 DM 全量迁移报错的问题，当上游的建表 SQL TiDB 不兼容时，用户可以提前在 TiDB 手动创建好目标表，让全量迁移任务继续运行 [#37984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37984) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@shichun-0415**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM full import fails if the upstream database uses SQL statements that are incompatible with TiDB to create tables. You can create the schema of target tables in TiDB manually in advance using SQL statements supported by TiDB to ensure successful import  [#37984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37984) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@shichun-0415**
```

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Optimize the file scanning logic to accelerate the scan of schema files [#38598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38598) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the potential issue of index inconsistency that occurs after you create a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix a permission issue of the `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix a permission issue of the `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that the `grantor` field is missing in the `mysql.tables_priv` table [#38293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38293) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    - Fix the issue that the join result of common table expressions might be wrong [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the union result of common table expressions might be wrong [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the information in the **transaction region num** monitoring panel is incorrect [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) might affect internal transactions. The variable scope is modified to SESSION. [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)

>     - Fix the issue that conditions in a query are mistakenly pushed down to projections [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623)@[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that conditions in a query are mistakenly pushed down to projections [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623) @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)
```

        - 修复 BR 第一次执行删除在 `Azure Storage Blob` 或 `Google Cloud Storage` 的日志备份数据时，会执行失败的问题。[#38229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38229) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        - 修复`changefeed query` 的输出中有`sasl-password` 明文的问题 [#7182](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7182) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - 修复可能向 ETCD 提交过多操作的问题 [#7131](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7131)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复 redo log 文件可能被错误删除的问题 [#7131](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7131)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复 sink v2 MQ 协议在同步宽表时性能回退的问题 [#7344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7344) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修复 checkpoint ts 可能被提前推进的问题 [#7274](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7274) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修改 mounter 模块的日志级以修复 log 打印太多的问题 [#7235](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7235) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修复可能存在两个 owner 的问题 [#4051](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4051)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - 修复 DM UI 产生错误 allow-list 参数问题。[#7096](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7096) @[zoubingwu](https://github.com/zoubingwu)
>         - 修复 DM Worker 在启动、停止时有一定概率触发 data race 的问题。[#6401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6401) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
>         - 修复当同步 Update、Delete 语句且下游行数据不存在时，DM 静默忽略的问题。[#6383](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6383) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
>         - 修复 Query Status 时 secondsBehindMaster 字段未显示的问题。[#7189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7189) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
>         - 修复更新 Checkpoint 时可能触发大事务的问题。[#5010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5010) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - 修复从 full 模式进行入 sync 模式且很快失败时可能丢失上游表结构信息的问题。[#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - 修复开启一致性校验（validator）时可能触发死锁的问题。[#7241](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7241) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
>         - 修复任务预检查对 INFORMATION_SCHEMA 表需要 SELECT 权限的问题。[#7317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7317) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - 修复空 TLS 配置导致直接报错的问题。[#7384](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7384) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM WebUI generates the wrong `allow-list` parameter [#7096](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7096) @[zoubingwu](https://github.com/zoubingwu)
        - Fix the issue that DM Worker has a certain probability of triggering data race when it starts or stops [#6401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6401) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
        - Fix the issue that when DM replicates an `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statement but the corresponding row data does not exist, DM silently ignores the event [#6383](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6383) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - Fix the issue that the `secondsBehindMaster` field is not displayed after running the `query-status` command [#7189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7189) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - Fix the issue that updating the checkpoint may trigger a large transaction [#5010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5010) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that in full task mode, when a task enters the sync stage and fails immediately, DM may lose upstream table schema information [#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that deadlock may be triggered when the consistency check is enabled [#7241](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7241) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - Fix the issue that task precheck requires the `SELECT` privilege for the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` table [#7317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7317) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix an issue that an empty TLS configuration causes an error [#7384](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7384) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the log backup task cannot be paused [#38250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38250)@[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the log backup task cannot be paused [#38250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38250) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

* Support restoring a cluster to a specific point in time by using `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` [#37197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37197) [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303)  @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo) **tw@Oreoxmt**

    You can use the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` syntax to restore a cluster to a specific point in time quickly with the Garbage Collection lifetime. This feature helps you to easily and quickly undo DML misoperations. For example, `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` can be used to restore the original cluster in minutes after mistakenly executing a `DELETE` without a `WHERE` clause. This feature does not rely on database backups and supports multiple rollbacks on the timeline to determine when the specific data changes occurred. Note that `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` cannot replace database backups.

    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md)

> * Support restoring a deleted database by using `FLASH DATABASE` [#20463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20463)  @[erwadba](https://github.com/erwadba) **tw@ran-huang**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Support restoring a deleted database by using `FLASH DATABASE` [#20463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20463) @[erwadba](https://github.com/erwadba) **tw@ran-huang**
```

    - Support pushing down the `json_constains` operator to Coprocessor [#13592](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13592) @[lizhenhuan](https://github.com/lizhenhuan)
    - Add the asynchronous function for `CausalTsProvider` to improve the flush performance in some scenarios [#13428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13428) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)

+ PD

    - The v2 algorithm of the hot Region scheduler becomes generally available (GA). In some scenarios, the v2 algorithm can achieve better balancing in both configured dimensions and reduce invalid scheduling [#5021](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5021) @[HundunDM](https://github.com/hundundm)
    - Optimize the timeout mechanism of Operator step to avoid premature timeout [#5596](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5596) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Improve the performance of the scheduler in a large cluster [#5473](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5473)@[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Support using external timestamp which is not provided by PD [#5637](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5637) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiFlash

>     - 重构了 MPP 的错误处理逻辑 [#5095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5095) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
>     - 优化了 Block Sort 以及对 Join 和 Aggregation 的 Key 的处理 [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
>     - 优化了编解码的内存使用和去除冗余传输列以提升 Join 性能 [#6157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6157) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Refactor the TiFlash MPP error handling process to further improve the stability of MPP [#5095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5095) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Optimize Block Sort and key handling for Join and Aggregation [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Optimize the memory usage for decoding and remove redundant transfer columns to improve Join performance [#6157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6157) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
```

    - 优化了 Block Sort 以及对 Join 和 Aggregation 的 Key 的处理 [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - 优化了编解码的内存使用和去除冗余传输列以提升 Join 性能 [#6157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6157) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Dashboard

        - Monitoring 页面展示 TiFlash 相关指标，并且优化指标的展示方式 [#1440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1440) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
        - 在 Slow Query 列表 和 SQL Statement 列表展示结果行数 [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
        - 优化 Dashboard 的报错信息。  [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Improve the mechanism for loading metadata. Metadata is loaded into memory only when needed, which significantly reduces the memory usage during PITR [#38404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38404) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Improve the mechanism for loading the metadata. The metadata is loaded into memory only when necessary, which significantly reduces the memory usage during PITR [#38404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38404) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

>     - 重构了 MPP 的错误处理逻辑 [#5095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5095) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
>     - 优化了 Block Sort 以及对 Join 和 Aggregation 的 Key 的处理 [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
>     - 优化了编解码的内存使用和去除冗余传输列以提升 Join 性能 [#6157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6157) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>         - Monitoring 页面展示 TiFlash 相关指标，并且优化指标的展示方式 [#1440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1440) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
>         - 在 Slow Query 列表 和 SQL Statement 列表展示结果行数 [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
>         - 优化 Dashboard 的报错信息。  [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support displaying TiFlash metrics on the Monitoring page and optimize the presentation of metrics on that page [#1440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1440) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
        - Show the number of rows for results in the Slow Query list and SQL Statement list [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
        - Optimize the error messages of the Dashboard  [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
```

        - Support reading historical data in the downstream TiDB by using the `tidb_enable_external_ts_read` varaible when Syncpoint is enabled [#7419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7419) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - 封装、暴露 Checker 对应的接口，提升各个入口功能组装、调用的灵活性。[#7116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7116) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Remove the useless `operate-source update` command from dmctl [#7246](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7246) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - 解决了 TiDB 不兼容上游数据库的建表 SQL 导致 DM 全量迁移报错的问题，当上游的建表 SQL TiDB 不兼容时，用户可以提前在 TiDB 手动创建好目标表，让全量迁移任务继续运行 [#37984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37984) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@shichun-0415**

    + TiDB Lightning

        - 优化文件扫描逻辑，提升 Schema 类型文件的扫描速度。[#38598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38598) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the potential issue of index inconsistency that occurs after creating a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential issue of index inconsistency that occurs after you create a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - Fix the issue that the join result of common table expressions might be wrong [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the union result of common table expressions might be wrong [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the information in the **transaction region num** monitoring panel is incorrect [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) might affect internal transactions. The variable scope is modified to SESSION. [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)
    - Fix the issue that conditions in a query are mistakenly pushed down to projections [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623)@[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)

>     - Fix the issue that the wrong `isNullRejected` check results for `AND` and `OR` cause wrong query result [#38304]( https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38304) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the wrong `isNullRejected` check results for `AND` and `OR` cause wrong query results [#38304]( https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38304) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `ORDER BY` in `GROUP_CONCAT` is not considered when the outer join is eliminated, which causes wrong query result [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `ORDER BY` in `GROUP_CONCAT` is not considered when the outer join is eliminated, which causes wrong query results [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

>     - Fix the issue of wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by join reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of the wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by Join Reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

    - 修复 tikv 监控 tikv_gc_compaction_filtered 表达式错误问题 [#13537](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13537)
    - 修复了 `delete_files_in_range` 中存在的异常而导致的性能问题 [#13534](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13534) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - 修复了获取 Snapshot 时 Lease 过期而引发的异常竞争问题 [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - 修复了第一次 FlashBack 失败时存在异常的问题 [#13695](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13695) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ PD

    - 修复 Stream 超时问题，加速 Leader 切换的速度 [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

+ TiFlash

    - 修复由于 PageStorage GC 未能正确清楚 Page 删除标记引起的 WAL 文件过大从而导致 OOM 的问题 [#6163](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6163) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Dashboard

        - 避免查询 Statement 执行计划的时候造成 TiDB OOM [#1386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1386) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
        - 修复 ng-monitoring 丢失 PD 连接后有概率造成 TopSQL 开关无效的问题 [#164](https://github.com/pingcap/ng-monitoring/issues/164) @[zhongzc](https://github.com/zhongzc)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix the restoration failure issue caused by PD leader switch during the restoration process [#36910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36910) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
>         - Fix the issue that the log backup task cannot be paused  [#38250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38250)@[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
>         - Fix the issue that when BR deletes log backup data, it mistakenly deletes data that should not be deleted [#38939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38939) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)
>         - Fix the issue that BR fails to delete data when deleting log backup data stored in Azure Blob Storage or Google Cloud Storage [#38229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38229) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the restoration failure issue caused by PD leader switch during the restoration process [#36910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36910) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
        - Fix the issue that the log backup task cannot be paused [#38250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38250)@[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
        - Fix the issue that when BR deletes log backup data, it mistakenly deletes data that should not be deleted [#38939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38939) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to delete data when deleting the log backup data stored in Azure Blob Storage or Google Cloud Storage for the first time [#38229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38229) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/leavrth)
```

>     - Fix the issue that Regions compete abnormally when getting snapshot caused by expired lease [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
>     - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK` fails in the first batch [#13672](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13672) [#13704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13704) [#13723](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13723) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix abnormal Region competiton caused by expired lease during snapshot acquistition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix errors occurred when `FLASHBACK` fails in the first batch [#13672](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13672) [#13704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13704) [#13723](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13723) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

>     - Fix the issue that Stream is timeout and improve the speed of switching leader [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix inaccurate Stream timeout and accelerate leader switchover [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
```

    + TiCDC

        - 修复`changefeed query` 的输出中有`sasl-password` 明文的问题 [#7182](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7182) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - 修复可能向 ETCD 提交过多操作的问题 [#7131](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7131)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复 redo log 文件可能被错误删除的问题 [#7131](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7131)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复 sink v2 MQ 协议在同步宽表时性能回退的问题 [#7344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7344) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修复 checkpoint ts 可能被提前推进的问题 [#7274](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7274) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修改 mounter 模块的日志级以修复 log 打印太多的问题 [#7235](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7235) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 修复可能存在两个 owner 的问题 [#4051](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4051)  @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Fix the issue that DM WebUI generates the wrong `allow-list` parameter [#7096](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7096) @[zoubingwu](https://github.com/zoubingwu)

>         - Fix the issue that DM Worker has a certain probability of triggering data race when it starts or stops [#6401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6401) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that a DM-worker has a certain probability of triggering data race when it starts or stops [#6401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6401) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
```

        - Fix the issue that when DM replicates an `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statement but the corresponding row data does not exist, DM silently ignores the event [#6383](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6383) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

>         - Fix the issue that the `secondsBehindMaster` field is not displayed after running the `query-status` command [#7189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7189) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the `secondsBehindMaster` field is not displayed after you run the `query-status` command [#7189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7189) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

        - Fix the issue that updating the checkpoint may trigger a large transaction [#5010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5010) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that in full task mode, when a task enters the sync stage and fails immediately, DM may lose upstream table schema information [#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that deadlock may be triggered when the consistency check is enabled [#7241](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7241) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - Fix the issue that task precheck requires the `SELECT` privilege for the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` table [#7317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7317) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - Fix an issue that an empty TLS configuration causes an error [#7384](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7384) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that an empty TLS configuration causes an error [#7384](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7384) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
```

## New features

### SQL

* Support using a SQL statement to compact TiFlash replicas of specified partitions in a table immediately [#5315](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5315) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen) **tw@qiancai**

    Since v6.2.0, TiDB has supported the feature of [compacting physical data immediately](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#alter-table--compact) on a full-table replica of TiFlash. You can choose the right time to manually execute SQL statements to immediately compact the physical data in TiFlash, which helps to reduce storage space and improve query performance. In v6.4.0, we refine the granularity of TiFlash replica data to be compacted and support compacting TiFlash replicas of specified partitions in a table immediately.

    By executing the SQL statement `ALTER TABLE table_name COMPACT [PARTITION PartitionNameList] [engine_type REPLICA]`, you can immediately compact TiFlash replicas of specified partitions in a table.

    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#compact-tiflash-replicas-of-specified-partitions-in-a-table)

> * Support restoring a cluster to a specific point in time by using `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` (experimental) [#37197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37197) [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303)  @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo) **tw@Oreoxmt**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support restoring a cluster to a specific point in time by using `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` (experimental) [#37197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37197) [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo) **tw@Oreoxmt**
```

    You can use the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` syntax to restore a cluster to a specific point in time quickly within the Garbage Collection (GC) lifetime. This feature helps you to easily and quickly undo DML misoperations. For example, you can use this syntax to restore the original cluster in minutes after mistakenly executing `DELETE` without a `WHERE` clause. This feature does not rely on database backups and supports rolling back data at different time points to determine the exact time when data changes. Note that `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` cannot replace database backups.

    Before executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`, you need to pause PITR and replication tasks running on such tools as TiCDC and restart them after the `FLASHBACK` is completed. Otherwise, replication tasks might fail.

    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md)

> * Support restoring a deleted database by using `FLASH DATABASE` [#20463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20463) @[erwadba](https://github.com/erwadba) **tw@ran-huang**

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Support restoring a deleted database by using `FLASHBACK DATABASE` [#20463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20463) @[erwadba](https://github.com/erwadba) **tw@ran-huang**
```

Or was this actually correct?

    By default, TiDB always tries to rewrite correlated subqueries to perform decorrelation, which usually improves execution efficiency. However, in some scenarios, decorrelation reduces the execution efficiency. In v6.4.0, TiDB introduces the optimizer hint `NO_DECORRELATE` to tell the optimizer not to perform decorrelation for specified query blocks to improve query performance in some scenarios.

    [User document](/optimizer-hints.md#no_decorrelate)

* Improve the performance of statistics collection on partitioned tables [#37977](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37977) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer) **tw@TomShawn**

    In v6.4.0, TiDB optimizes the strategy of collecting statistics on partitioned tables. You can use the system variable [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-auto-analyze-partitoin-batch-size-new-in-v640) to set the concurrency of collecting statistics on partitioned tables in parallel to speed up the collection and shorten the analysis time.

### Stability

> * Accelerate fault recovery in extreme situations such as disk failure and stuck I/O [#13648](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13648) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@qiancai**

Author: ```suggestion
* Accelerate fault recovery in extreme situations such as disk failures and stuck I/O [#13648](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13648) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@qiancai**
```

    Global memory control is a milestone in TiDB memory management. It introduces a global view for instances and adopts systematic management for memory, which can greatly enhance database stability and service availability in more key scenarios.

    [User document](/configure-memory-usage.md)

* Control the memory usage of the range-building optimizer [#37176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37176) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@TomShawn**

    In v6.4.0, the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) is introduced to limit the maximum memory usage of the optimizer that builds ranges. When the memory usage exceeds the limit, the optimizer will build more coarse-grained ranges instead of more exact ranges to reduce memory consumption. If a SQL statement has many `IN` conditions, this optimization can significantly reduce the memory usage of compiling and ensure system stability.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Supports synchronously loading statistics (GA) [#37434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37434) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan) **tw@ran-huang**

    TiDB v6.4.0 enables the synchronously loading statistics feature by default. This feature allows TiDB to synchronously load large-sized statistics (such as histograms, TopN, and Count-Min Sketch statistics) into memory when you execute SQL statements, which improves the completeness of statistics for SQL optimization.
```

### Ease of use

* TiKV API V2 becomes generally available (GA) [#11745](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11745) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu) **tw@Oreoxmt**

>     Before v6.1.0, TiKV only provides basic Key Value read and write capability because it only stores the raw data passed in by the client. In addition, due to different coding methods and no isolation of data ranges, TiDB, Transactional KV, and RawKv cannot be used at the same time in the same TiKV cluster. Therefore, multiple clusters are needed in this case, thus increasing machine and deployment costs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before v6.1.0, TiKV only provides basic Key Value read and write capability because it only stores the raw data passed in by the client. In addition, due to different coding methods and unscoped data ranges, TiDB, Transactional KV, and RawKV cannot be used at the same time in the same TiKV cluster; instead, multiple clusters are needed in this case, thus increasing machine and deployment costs.
```

>     TiKV API V2 provides a new Raw Key Value storage format and access interface, including:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TiKV API V2 provides a new Raw Key Value storage format and access interface, which delievers the following benefits:
```

>     - The data is stored in MVCC and the change timestamp of the data is recorded. Based on this, Change Data Capture is implemented, which is an experimental. For more information, see [TiKV-CDC](https://github.com/tikv/migration/blob/main/cdc/README.md)
>     - Data is scoped according to different usage and supports co-existence of a single TiDB cluster, Transactional KV, and RawKV applications.
>     - The Key Space field is reserved to support features such as multi-tenancy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Store data in MVCC with the change timestamp of the data recorded, based on which Change Data Capture (CDC) is implemented. This feature is experimental and is detailed in [TiKV-CDC](https://github.com/tikv/migration/blob/main/cdc/README.md).
    - Scope data according to the usage and allow co-existence of a single TiDB cluster, Transactional KV, and RawKV applications.
    - Reserve the Key Space field to support features such as multi-tenancy.
```

>     To enable TiKV API V2, you can set `api-version = 2` in the `[storage]` section of the TiKV configuration file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To enable TiKV API V2, set `api-version = 2` in the `[storage]` section of the TiKV configuration file.
```

    In the earlier version, TiDB has supported the Hash, Range, and List partitioning. Starting from v6.4.0, TiDB can also be compatible with [MySQL Linear Hash partitioning](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/partitioning-linear-hash.html).

    In TiDB, you can execute the existing DDL statements of your MySQL Linear Hash partitions directly, and TiDB will create the corresponding Hash partition tables (note that there is no Linear Hash partition inside TiDB). You can also execute the existing DML statements of your MySQL Linear Hash partitions directly, and TiDB will return the query result of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitions normally. This feature ensures the TiDB syntax compatibility with MySQL Linear Hash partitions and facilitates seamless migration from MySQL-based applications to TiDB.

    [User document](/partitioned-table.md#linear-hash-handling)

* Support a high-performance and globally monotonic `AUTO_INCREMENT` (experimental) [#38442](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38442) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) **tw@Oreoxmt**

>     TiDB v6.4.0 introduces the `AUTO_INCREMENT` MySQL compatibility mode, which enables monotonically increasing IDs on all TiDB instances by a centralized allocating service. This feature makes it easier to sort query results by auto-increment IDs. To use the MySQL compatibility mode, you can set `AUTO_ID_CACHE` to `1` when creating a table. The following is an example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TiDB v6.4.0 introduces the `AUTO_INCREMENT` MySQL compatibility mode. This mode introduces a centralized auto-increment ID allocating service that ensures IDs monotonically increase on all TiDB instances. This feature makes it easier to sort query results by auto-increment IDs. To use the MySQL compatibility mode, you need to set `AUTO_ID_CACHE` to `1` when creating a table. The following is an example:
```

| [`tidb_enable_clustered_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_clustered_index--new-in-v50) | Modified | Changes the default value from `INT_ONLY` to `ON`, meaning that primary keys are created as clustered indexes by default.|
| [`tidb_enable_paging`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_paging-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON`, meaning that the method of paging to send coprocessor requests is used by default. |
| [`tidb_enable_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_prepared_plan_cache--new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the SESSION scope. This variable controls whether to enable [Prepared Plan Cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md). |
| [`tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0.8` to `0.7`. This variable controls the memory usage ratio that triggers the tidb-server memory alarm. |

> | [`tidb_opt_agg_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidboptaggpushdown) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope. This variable controls whether the optimizer executes the optimization operation of pushing down the aggregate function to the position before Join, Projection, and UnionAll. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_opt_agg_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_agg_push_down) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope. This variable controls whether the optimizer executes the optimization operation of pushing down the aggregate function to the position before Join, Projection, and UnionAll. |
```

> | [`tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_prepared_plan_cache-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the SESSION scope. This variable controls the maximum number of plans that can be cached in a session. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the SESSION scope. This variable controls the maximum number of plans that can be cached in a session. |
```

| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | `tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio` | Deleted | This configuration item is no longer effective. |
| TiDB | `memory-usage-alarm-ratio` | Deleted | Replaced by the system variable [`tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio).  If this configuration item has been configured in a TiDB version earlier than v6.4.0, it will not take effect after the upgrade. |
| TiDB | [`pessimistic-txn.constraint-check-in-place-pessimistic`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#constraint-check-in-place-pessimistic) | Newly added | Control the default value of the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630). |
| TiDB | [`tidb_max_reuse_chunk`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_max_reuse_chunk-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the maximum cached chunk objects of chunk allocation. The default value is `64`.|
| TiDB | [`tidb_max_reuse_column`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tidb_max_reuse_column-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the maximum cached column objects of chunk allocation. The default value is `256`. |

> | TiKV | [`raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold-new-in-v620) | Deprecated | This configuration item is no longer effective. |
> | TiKV | [`alloc-ahead-buffer`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#alloc-ahead-buffer-new-in-v640) | Newly added | The pre-allocated TSO cache size (in duration). The default value is `3s`。|
> | TiKV | [`apply-yield-write-size`](#apply-yield-write-size--new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of bytes that the Apply thread can write for one FSM (Finite-state Machine) in one round of poll. The default value is `32KiB`. This is a soft limit. |
> | TiKV | [`renew-batch-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#renew-batch-max-size-new-in-v640)| Newly added | Controls the maximum number of TSOs in a timestamp request. The default value is `8192`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`cdc.raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raw-min-ts-outlier-threshold-new-in-v620) | Deprecated | This configuration item is no longer effective. |
| TiKV | [`causal-ts.alloc-ahead-buffer`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#alloc-ahead-buffer-new-in-v640) | Newly added | The pre-allocated TSO cache size (in duration). The default value is `3s`。|
| TiKV | [`causal-ts.renew-batch-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#renew-batch-max-size-new-in-v640)| Newly added | Controls the maximum number of TSOs in a timestamp request. The default value is `8192`. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-yield-write-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-yield-write-size--new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of bytes that the Apply thread can write for one FSM (Finite-state Machine) in one round of poll. The default value is `32KiB`. This is a soft limit. |
```

> | TiDB | `memory-usage-alarm-ratio` | Deleted | Replaced by the system variable [`tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio).  If this configuration item has been configured in a TiDB version earlier than v6.4.0, it will not take effect after the upgrade. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| TiDB | `memory-usage-alarm-ratio` | Deleted | Replaced by the system variable [`tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_memory_usage_alarm_ratio). If this configuration item has been configured in a TiDB version earlier than v6.4.0, it will not take effect after the upgrade. |
```

+ TiFlash

    - Refactor the TiFlash MPP error handling logic to further improve the stability of MPP [#5095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5095) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Optimize the sorting of the TiFlash computation process, and optimize the key handling for Join and Aggregation [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Optimize the memory usage for decoding and remove redundant transfer columns to improve Join performance [#6157](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6157) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Dashboard

        - Support displaying TiFlash metrics on the Monitoring page and optimize the presentation of metrics on that page [#1440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1440) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
        - Show the number of rows for results in the Slow Query list and SQL Statement list [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

>         - Optimize the error messages of the Dashboard  [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the error messages of the Dashboard [#1407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/pull/1407) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)
```

        - 支持 Kafka 3.x 版 [7191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7191) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - 支持 syncpoint 功能与下游 TiDB 集群的 `tidb_enable_external_ts_read`  一起使用  [#7419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7419) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - 封装、暴露 Checker 对应的接口，提升各个入口功能组装、调用的灵活性。[#7116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7116) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Remove the useless `operate-source update` command from dmctl [#7246](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7246) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - 解决了 TiDB 不兼容上游数据库的建表 SQL 导致 DM 全量迁移报错的问题，当上游的建表 SQL TiDB 不兼容时，用户可以提前在 TiDB 手动创建好目标表，让全量迁移任务继续运行 [#37984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37984) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@shichun-0415**

    + TiDB Lightning

        - 优化文件扫描逻辑，提升 Schema 类型文件的扫描速度。[#38598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38598) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the potential issue of index consistency that occurs after creating a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential issue of index inconsistency that occurs after creating a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

>     - 修复新建索引之后有可能导致的数据索引不一致的问题 [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复关于 `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` 表的权限问题 [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
>     - 修复 CTE 在 join 时可能得到错误结果的问题 [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - 修复 CTE 在 union 时可能得到错误结果的问题 [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复监控 transaction region num panel 信息不准确问题 [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](github.com/jackysp)
>     - 修复 [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-从-v630-版本开始引入) 可能影响内部事务问题，修改该变量作用域为 session [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)
>     - 修复了条件在某些场景下被错误下推 projection 的问题 [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623)@[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)
>     - 修复了 `AND` `OR` 条件的 `isNullRejected` 的错误导致查询结果错误的问题 [#38304]( https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38304) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
>     - 修复了外连接消除时没有考虑 `GROUP_CONCAT` 内部的 `order by` 导致查询出错的问题 [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - 修复了错误下推的条件被 join reorder 丢弃后导致查询结果错误的问题 [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential issue of index consistency that occurs after creating a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix a permission issue of the `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that the join result of common table expressions might be wrong [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the union result of common table expressions might be wrong [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the information in the **transaction region num** monitoring panel is incorrect [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) might affect internal transactions. The variable scope is modified to SESSION. [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)
    - Fix the issue that conditions in a query are mistakenly pushed down to projections [#35623](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35623)@[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent)
    - Fix the issue that the wrong `isNullRejected` check results for `AND` and `OR` cause wrong query result [#38304]( https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38304) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
    - Fix the issue that `ORDER BY` in `GROUP_CONCAT` is not considered when the outer join is eliminated, which causes wrong query result [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) 
    - Fix the issue of wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by join reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) 
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to start on Gitpod when there are multiple `cgroup` and `mountinfo` records [#13660](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13660) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the wrong expression of a TiKV metric `tikv_gc_compaction_filtered` [#13537](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13537) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the performance issue caused by the abnormal `delete_files_in_range` [#13534](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13534) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix abnormal Region competiton caused by expired lease during snapshot acquistition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

>     - Fix  errors occurred when `FLASHBACK` fails in the first batch [#13672](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13672) [#13704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13704) [#13723](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13723) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix errors occurred when `FLASHBACK` fails in the first batch [#13672](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13672) [#13704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13704) [#13723](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13723) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

        - Fix the issue that in full task mode, when a task enters the sync stage and fails immediately, DM may lose upstream table schema information [#7159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7159) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that deadlock may be triggered when the consistency check is enabled [#7241](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7241) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - Fix the issue that task precheck requires the `SELECT` privilege for the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` table [#7317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7317) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix an issue that an empty TLS configuration causes an error [#7384](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7384) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - 修复 Parquet String Column 且 Table 设置了 binary 属性时导致导入性能下降的问题。[#38351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38351) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

    + TiDB Dumpling

>         - 修复导出大量表时可能导致超时的问题。[#36549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36549) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - 修复加锁模式但是上游不存在对应表时导致加锁报错的问题 [#38683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38683) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Dumpling might time out when exporting a lot of tables [#36549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36549) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix lock errors reported when consistency lock is enabled but the upstream has no target table [#38683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38683) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    In v6.4.0, the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) is introduced to limit the maximum memory usage of the optimizer that builds ranges. When the memory usage exceeds the limit, the optimizer will build more coarse-grained ranges instead of more exact ranges to reduce memory consumption. If a SQL statement has many `IN` conditions, this optimization can significantly reduce the memory usage of compiling and ensure system stability.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640)

* Support synchronously loading statistics (GA) [#37434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37434) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan)

    TiDB v6.4.0 enables the synchronously loading statistics feature by default. This feature allows TiDB to synchronously load large-sized statistics (such as histograms, TopN, and Count-Min Sketch statistics) into memory when you execute SQL statements, which improves the completeness of statistics for SQL optimization.

>     [User document](/system-varaibles.md#tidb_stats_load_sync_wait-new-in-v540)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    [User document](/system-variable.md#tidb_stats_load_sync_wait-new-in-v540)
```

### Ease of use

* TiKV API V2 becomes generally available (GA) [#11745](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11745) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)

    Before v6.1.0, TiKV only provides basic Key Value read and write capability because it only stores the raw data passed in by the client. In addition, due to different coding methods and unscoped data ranges, TiDB, Transactional KV, and RawKV cannot be used at the same time in the same TiKV cluster; instead, multiple clusters are needed in this case, thus increasing machine and deployment costs.

>     TiKV API V2 provides a new Raw Key Value storage format and access interface, which delievers the following benefits:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    TiKV API V2 provides a new RawKV storage format and access interface, which delivers the following benefits:
```

    - Store data in MVCC with the change timestamp of the data recorded, based on which Change Data Capture (CDC) is implemented. This feature is experimental and is detailed in [TiKV-CDC](https://github.com/tikv/migration/blob/main/cdc/README.md).

>     - Scope data according to the usage and allow co-existence of a single TiDB cluster, Transactional KV, and RawKV applications.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Data is scoped according to different usage and API V2 supports co-existence of TiDB, Transactional KV, and RawKV applications in a single cluster.
```

    - Reserve the Key Space field to support features such as multi-tenancy.

  To enable TiKV API V2, set `api-version = 2` in the `[storage]` section of the TiKV configuration file.

  [User documentation](/tikv-configuration-file.md#api-version-new-in-v610)

* Improve the accuracy of TiFlash data replication progress [#4902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4902) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)

>     In TiDB, the `PROGRESS` field of the `information_schema.tiflash_replica` table is used to indicate the progress of data replication from the corresponding tables in TiKV to the TiFlash replicas. In earlier TiDB versions, the `PROCESS` field only provides the progress of data replication during the creation of the TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV, this field will not be updated to show the replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In TiDB, the `PROGRESS` field of the `INFORMATION_SCHAME.TIFLASH_REPLICA` table is used to indicate the progress of data replication from the corresponding tables in TiKV to the TiFlash replicas. In earlier TiDB versions, the `PROCESS` field only provides the progress of data replication during the creation of the TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV, this field will not be updated to show the replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data.
```

>     In v6.4.0, TiDB improves the update mechanism of data replication progress for TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV, the `PROGRESS` value in the [`information_schema.tiflash_replica`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table will be updated to show the actual replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. With this improvement, you can easily view the actual progress of TiFlash data replication.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In v6.4.0, TiDB improves the update mechanism of data replication progress for TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV, the `PROGRESS` value in the [`INFORMATION_SCHAME.TIFLASH_REPLICA`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table will be updated to show the actual replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. With this improvement, you can easily view the actual progress of TiFlash data replication.
```

    [User documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md)

### MySQL compatibility

* Be compatible with the Linear Hash partitioning syntax [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    In the earlier version, TiDB has supported the Hash, Range, and List partitioning. Starting from v6.4.0, TiDB can also be compatible with [MySQL Linear Hash partitioning](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/partitioning-linear-hash.html).

>     In TiDB, you can execute the existing DDL statements of your MySQL Linear Hash partitions directly, and TiDB will create the corresponding Hash partition tables (note that there is no Linear Hash partition inside TiDB). You can also execute the existing DML statements of your MySQL Linear Hash partitions directly, and TiDB will return the query result of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitions normally. This feature ensures the TiDB syntax compatibility with MySQL Linear Hash partitions and facilitates seamless migration from MySQL-based applications to TiDB.

Author: ```suggestion
    In TiDB, you can execute the existing DDL statements of your MySQL Linear Hash partitions directly, and TiDB will create the corresponding Hash partition tables (note that there is no Linear Hash partition inside TiDB). You can also execute the existing DML statements of your MySQL Linear Hash partitions directly, and TiDB will return the query result of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitions normally. This feature ensures the TiDB syntax compatibility with MySQL Linear Hash partitions and facilitates seamless migration from MySQL-based applications to TiDB.
 
 If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the TiDB Hash partitioned table are distributed the same as that in MySQL Linear Hash partitioned table. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL.
 
 
 
```

    In TiDB v6.4, you can use the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) to add additional descriptions for database users. TiDB provides two description formats. You can add a text comment using `COMMENT` and add a set of structured attributes in JSON format using `ATTRIBUTE`.

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'newuser1'@'%' COMMENT 'This user is created only for test';
    CREATE USER 'newuser2'@'%' ATTRIBUTE '{"email": "user@pingcap.com"}';
    SELECT * FROM information_schema.user_attributes;
    ```

    ```sql
    +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
    | USER      | HOST | ATTRIBUTE                                         |
    +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
    | newuser1  | %    | {"comment": "This user is created only for test"} |
    | newuser1  | %    | {"email": "user@pingcap.com"}                     |
    +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
    2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

>     In addition, TiDB v6.4 adds the [USER_ATTRIBUTES](/information-schema/information-schema-user-attributes.md) table, where you can view the information of user comments and use attributes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In addition, TiDB v6.4 adds the [`USER_ATTRIBUTES`](/information-schema/information-schema-user-attributes.md) table, where you can view the information of user comments and user attributes.
```

>     ```sql
>     CREATE USER 'newuser1'@'%' COMMENT 'This user is created only for test';
>     CREATE USER 'newuser2'@'%' ATTRIBUTE '{"email": "user@pingcap.com"}';
>     SELECT * FROM information_schema.user_attributes;
>     ```
> 
>     ```sql
>     +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
>     | USER      | HOST | ATTRIBUTE                                         |
>     +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
>     | newuser1  | %    | {"comment": "This user is created only for test"} |
>     | newuser1  | %    | {"email": "user@pingcap.com"}                     |
>     +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
>     2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
>     ```
> 
>     In addition, TiDB v6.4 adds the [USER_ATTRIBUTES](/information-schema/information-schema-user-attributes.md) table, where you can view the information of user comments and use attributes.

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
    In addition, TiDB v6.4.0 adds the [`USER_ATTRIBUTES`](/information-schema/information-schema-user-attributes.md) table, where you can view the information of user comments and user attributes.
        ```sql
    CREATE USER 'newuser1'@'%' COMMENT 'This user is created only for test';
    CREATE USER 'newuser2'@'%' ATTRIBUTE '{"email": "user@pingcap.com"}';
    SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHAME.USER_ATTRIBUTES;
    ```

    ```sql
    +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
    | USER      | HOST | ATTRIBUTE                                         |
    +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
    | newuser1  | %    | {"comment": "This user is created only for test"} |
    | newuser1  | %    | {"email": "user@pingcap.com"}                     |
    +-----------+------+---------------------------------------------------+
    2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
    ```
````

    This feature improves TiDB compatibility with MySQL syntax and makes it easier to integrate TiDB into tools or platforms in the MySQL ecosystem.

### Backup and restore

* Support backing up a TiDB cluster using EBS volume snapshots [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33849) @[fengou1](https://github.com/fengou1)

>     If your TiDB cluster is deployed on EKS and uses AWS EBS volumes, and you have the following requirements when backing up TiDB cluster data , you can use TiDB Operator to back up the data by volume snapshots and metadata to AWS S3:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    If your TiDB cluster is deployed on EKS and uses AWS EBS volumes, and you have the following requirements when backing up TiDB cluster data, you can use TiDB Operator to back up the data by volume snapshots and metadata to AWS S3:
```

        - Optimize the Dashboard to not report the Alertmanager errors when Alertmanager does not exist [#1444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1444) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Improve the mechanism for loading the metadata. The metadata is loaded into memory only when necessary, which significantly reduces the memory usage during PITR [#38404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38404) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

        - Support replicating the exchange partition DDL statements [#639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/639) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve non-batch sending performance for the MQ sink module [#7353](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7353) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Improve performance of TiCDC puller when a table has a large number of Regions [#7078](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7078) [#7281](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7281) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

>         - Support reading historical data in the downstream TiDB by using the `tidb_enable_external_ts_read` varaible when Syncpoint is enabled [#7419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7419) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Support reading historical data in the downstream TiDB by using the `tidb_enable_external_ts_read` variable when Syncpoint is enabled [#7419](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7419) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Remove the useless `operate-source update` command from dmctl [#7246](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7246) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)
        - Fix the issue that DM full import fails if the upstream database uses DDL statements that are incompatible with TiDB. You can create the schema of target tables in TiDB manually in advance using DDL statements supported by TiDB to ensure successful import  [#37984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37984) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) 

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Optimize the file scanning logic to accelerate the scan of schema files [#38598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38598) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the potential issue of index inconsistency that occurs after you create a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix a permission issue of the `information_schema.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix a permission issue of the `INFORMATION_SCHAME.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    - Fix the issue that `ORDER BY` in `GROUP_CONCAT` is not considered when the outer join is eliminated, which causes wrong query results [#18216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18216) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue of the wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by Join Reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to start on Gitpod when there are multiple `cgroup` and `mountinfo` records [#13660](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13660) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the wrong expression of a TiKV metric `tikv_gc_compaction_filtered` [#13537](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13537) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the performance issue caused by the abnormal `delete_files_in_range` [#13534](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13534) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)

>     - Fix abnormal Region competiton caused by expired lease during snapshot acquistition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix abnormal Region competition caused by expired lease during snapshot acquisition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    In v6.4.0, the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640) is introduced to limit the maximum memory usage of the optimizer that builds ranges. When the memory usage exceeds the limit, the optimizer will build more coarse-grained ranges instead of more exact ranges to reduce memory consumption. If a SQL statement has many `IN` conditions, this optimization can significantly reduce the memory usage of compiling and ensure system stability.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb-opt-range-max-size-new-in-v640)

* Support synchronously loading statistics (GA) [#37434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37434) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan)

    TiDB v6.4.0 enables the synchronously loading statistics feature by default. This feature allows TiDB to synchronously load large-sized statistics (such as histograms, TopN, and Count-Min Sketch statistics) into memory when you execute SQL statements, which improves the completeness of statistics for SQL optimization.

>     [User document](/system-variable.md#tidb_stats_load_sync_wait-new-in-v540)

Author: ```suggestion
    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_stats_load_sync_wait-new-in-v540)
```

>     For more information, see [User document](/system-variable.md#tidb_stats_load_sync_wait-new-in-v540).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_stats_load_sync_wait-new-in-v540).
```

| [`last_sql_use_alloc`](/system-variables.md#last_sql_use_alloc-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Shows whether the previous statement uses a cached chunk object (chunk allocation). This variable is read-only and the default value is `OFF`. |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Specifies the number of partitions that TiDB can [automatically analyzes](/statistics.md#automatic-update) at a time when analyzing a partitioned table (which means automatically collecting statistics on a partitioned table). The default value is `1`.|
| [`tidb_enable_external_ts_read`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_external_ts_read-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB reads data with the timestamp specified by [`tidb_external_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_external_ts-new-in-v640). The default value is `OFF`. |
| [`tidb_enable_gogc_tuner`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_gogc_tuner-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable GOGC Tuner. The default value is `ON`. |

> | [`tidb_enable_reuse_chunk`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_reuse_chunk-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB enables chunk objects cache. The default value is `ON`, meaning that TiDB prefers to use the cached chunk object and only requests from the system if the requested object is not in the cache. If the value is `OFF`, TiDB requests chunk objects from the system directly. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_reuse_chunk`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_reuse_chunk-new-in-v640) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB enables chunk objects cache. The default value is `ON`, meaning that TiDB prefers to use the cached chunk object and only requests from the system if the requested object is not in the cache. If the value is `OFF`, TiDB requests chunk objects from the system directly. |
```

| DM | [`routes.route-rule-1.extract-source`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | Optional. Used in the sharding scenario for extracting the source instance information. The extracted information will be written to the merged table in the downstream to identify the data source. If this parameter is configured, you need to manually create a merged table in the downstream in advance. |

### Others

- Starting from v6.4.0, the `mysql.user` table adds two new columns: `User_attributes` and `Token_issuer`. If you [restore system tables in the `mysql` schema](/br/br-usage-restore.md#restore-tables-in-the-mysql-schema) from backup data of earlier TiDB versions to TiDB v6.4.0, BR will report the `column count mismatch` error for the `mysql.user` table. If you do not restore system tables in the `mysql` schema, this error will not be reported.

> - For files whose names match the Dumpling schemas and data format but end with uncompressed formats (such as `test-schema-create.sql.origin` and `test.table-schema.sql.xxx`), the way how TiDB Lightning handles them is changed. Before v6.4.0, if the files to be imported include such files, TiDB Lightning will skip importing such files. Starting from v6.4.0, TiDB Lightning assumes that such files use unsupported compression formats, so the import task will fail.

Author: ```suggestion
- For files whose names match the [format of Dumpling exported files](/dumpling-overview.md#format-of-exported-files) but end with uncompressed formats (such as `test-schema-create.sql.origin` and `test.table-schema.sql.origin`), the way how TiDB Lightning handles them is changed. Before v6.4.0, if the files to be imported include such files, TiDB Lightning will skip importing such files. Starting from v6.4.0, TiDB Lightning assumes that such files use unsupported compression formats, so the import task will fail.
```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the potential issue of index inconsistency that occurs after you create a new index [#38165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38165) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix a permission issue of the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table [#38407](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38407) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that the `grantor` field is missing in the `mysql.tables_priv` table [#38293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38293) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that the join result of common table expressions might be wrong [#38170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38170) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the union result of common table expressions might be wrong [#37928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37928) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the information in the **transaction region num** monitoring panel is incorrect [#38139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38139) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)

>     - Fix the issue that the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) might affect internal transactions. The variable scope is modified to SESSION. [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the system variable [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) might affect internal transactions. The variable scope is modified to SESSION. [#38766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38766) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
```
